All right.
So in this lesson, I want to talk more about view components and the parts that they consist of.
So let's open up our app view component.
This is within our SASE directory.
And as a reminder, this is the component that we are mounting in our main gas file.
So as a reminder here we are importing app and remember we are hooking into that div with an idea of
app and we're asking Vue to mount our app component inside that div.
So this is sort of the place where it all begins as far as the content that we are seeing in our browser.
All right.
So before we talk about what's going on in this file, I want to give you another helpful analogy for
understanding a component.
You may recall the jigsaw puzzles that you used to do as a kid, right?
Jigsaw puzzles had a whole bunch of pieces and you connected them together to form a complete picture.
Right.
So you can think of a component almost like a puzzle piece.
And as the web page, as your final puzzle.
Right.
So a component is just some kind of chunk of that web page.
And it can be as large or as small as you want it to be in the same way that you can have, you know,
a jigsaw puzzle that has two pieces or a thousand pieces.
It doesn't really matter how many pieces you have.
All that matters is that you connect these pieces together to form the greater whole.
It's the same idea here.
A view component is just some chunk of HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and then you can use those components
in combination with each other to form the web page.
Or you can have a component render its own smaller components within itself.
Right.
So it's kind of a combination of smaller pieces to form a greater whole.
So as I mentioned, each component is just going to have each HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
And if we look inside this app view file, you'll notice three distinct sections here.
We have this section that begins with this opening and closing template tag.
We have the section that begins with an opening and closing script tag.
And then we have this section right here that begins and ends with an opening and closing style tag.
All right.
So you could probably guess what each one of these sections are responsible for, but let's go through
them anyway.
So in this template section, we're going to write either Vanilla H10 up or we're going to render additional
components.
So what we're doing here, for example, line two, this is plain HTML.
This is the image element from each HTML.
In comparison, what we're doing on line three is rendering another component that is called Hello World.
If you open up the CRC Components Directory, you can find that hello world component right here.
And if I open up that view file, you'll notice that it consists of the exact same structure.
It starts with a top level template section, and in that template section we have a whole bunch of
HTML.
So whenever we're rendering the helloworld component, we are rendering this puzzle piece, which in
turn is going to render all of this HTML.
So it's almost like a find and replace operation.
Whenever a view sees hello world, it understands that this is its own component with its own age HTML
and it substitutes that HTML into here.
So why do we use components so that we can split up these responsibilities, we can split up these chunks,
split up these puzzle pieces into more lightweight, single responsibility pieces of the user interface.
Instead of having one huge HTML file with a thousand lines, we identify the elements that are kind
of smaller pieces of it and then build them independently of each other.
Right?
So in the tablet section, we have a combination of HTML as well as other components.
In the script section, we have valid JavaScript code.
That's one thing that makes a view file really cool is that there's actually two different languages
at play here in the template section is HTML plus additional stuff.
And in a script section, this is all valid JavaScript code.
So here you can see we have an import and we have the creation of an object with properties.
This is valid JavaScript code and it is in this section that we define the interactivity of the specific
component.
So this logic right here is always going to connect to the HTML logic in the template section.
This is where we're going to enable interactivity.
So to give you a very basic example, if we had a component that was rendering a button, we might render
that button in the channel side of the view file, the template section, but reacting to a button click,
which is logic based, JavaScript based, we would we would put that logic in the script section.
So this is kind of where we put all of the JavaScript code related to this component.
And then finally the style section right here is styling specifically for this component.
Now we're going to talk about some caveats, of course, a little bit later.
But for now, the best way to think about it is here's my HTML, here's how we style it, and here is
some JavaScript logic related to it as far as interactivity is concerned.
Right.
And you're going to notice this pattern in every single view component found.
So if I go to my Hello World component, which app is rendering, you're going to notice right here
we have our template section.
I'm going to go all the way down past this HTML.
You'll notice it's going to be closed off with a closing template tag.
Then we have a script section.
In the here we have valid JavaScript and then we closed that section off and then finally we have the
style section and here we have totally valid access.
So this is valid access in the same way that this is valid JavaScript, in the same way that this is
valid HTML.
Instead of separating them across different files, the view developers think it's best to put them
within a single one because a component is supposed to encapsulate all of the related aspects that make
up that chunk of the UI, what its structure is in terms of the HTML, what it looks like and how you
interact with it, which is JavaScript.
And again, if you're if your component becomes too large, then the idea is that you break that up
into smaller components, each one with its own styling, its own logic, its own template.
So that is the beauty of components.
You could technically have a view app with just one component, right?
You could have a component with 5000 lines in it, but that defeats the entire purpose of why we use
Vue instead.
The idea here, of course, that the best strategy is to have lots of small different components that
are each responsible for one small thing in your user interface.
All right, that's a quick introduction to what we have as the contents of a view component file.
Again, a view component will live in a dot view file.
It's going to have a template section, it's going to have a script section and it's going to have a
style section.
And those represent the HTML, the JavaScript and the access respectively for that component for that
chunk or slice of the user interface.
All right.
More on this in the next lesson.